boards/st/nucleo_u5a5zj_q/doc/index.rst, before:

.. zephyr:board:: nucleo_u5a5zj_q

Overview
********

The Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q board, featuring an ARM Cortex-M33 based STM32U5A5ZJ MCU,
provides an affordable and flexible way for users to try out new concepts and
build prototypes by choosing from the various combinations of performance and
power consumption features. Here are some highlights of the Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q
board:


- STM32U5A5ZJ microcontroller in LQFP144 package
- Internal SMPS to generate V core logic supply
- Two types of extension resources:

  - Arduino Uno V3 connectivity
  - ST morpho extension pin headers for full access to all STM32 I/Os

- On-board ST-LINK/V3E debugger/programmer
- Flexible board power supply:

  - USB VBUS or external source(3.3V, 5V, 7 - 12V)
  - ST-Link V3E

- Three users LEDs
- Two push-buttons: USER and RESET
- USB Type-C ™ Sink device FS

Hardware
********

The STM32U5A5xx devices are an ultra-low-power microcontrollers family (STM32U5
Series) based on the high-performance Arm® Cortex®-M33 32-bit RISC core.
They operate at a frequency of up to 160 MHz.

- Includes ST state-of-the-art patented technology
- Ultra-low-power with FlexPowerControl:

  - 1.71 V to 3.6 V power supply
  - -40 °C to +85/125 °C temperature range
  - Low-power background autonomous mode (LPBAM): autonomous peripherals with
    DMA, functional down to Stop 2 mode
  - VBAT mode: supply for RTC, 32 x 32-bit backup registers and 2-Kbyte backup SRAM
  - 150 nA Shutdown mode (24 wake-up pins)
  - 195 nA Standby mode (24 wake-up pins)
  - 480 nA Standby mode with RTC
  - 2 µA Stop 3 mode with 40-Kbyte SRAM
  - 8.2 µA Stop 3 mode with 2.5-Mbyte SRAM
  - 4.65 µA Stop 2 mode with 40-Kbyte SRAM
  - 17.5 µA Stop 2 mode with 2.5-Mbyte SRAM
  - 18.5 µA/MHz Run mode at 3.3 V

- Core:

  - Arm® 32-bit Cortex®-M33 CPU with TrustZone®, MPU, DSP,
    and FPU ART Accelerator
  - 32-Kbyte ICACHE allowing 0-wait-state execution from flash and external
    memories: frequency up to 160 MHz, 240 DMIPS
  - 16-Kbyte DCACHE1 for external memories

- Power management:

  - Embedded regulator (LDO) and SMPSstep-down converter supporting switch
    on-the-fly and voltage scaling

- Benchmarks:

  - 1.5 DMIPS/MHz (Drystone 2.1)
  - 655 CoreMark® (4.09 CoreMark®/MHz)
  - 369 ULPMark™-CP
  - 89 ULPMark™-PP
  - 47.2 ULPMark™-CM
  - 120000 SecureMark™-TLS

- Memories:

  - 4-Mbyte flash memory with ECC, 2 banks readwhile-write, including 512 Kbytes
    with 100 kcycles
  - With SRAM3 ECC off: 2514-Kbyte RAM including 66 Kbytes with ECC
  - With SRAM3 ECC on: 2450-Kbyte RAMincluding 322 Kbytes with ECC
  - External memory interface supporting SRAM,PSRAM, NOR, NAND, and FRAM memories
  - 2 Octo-SPI memory interfaces
  - 16-bit HSPI memory interface up to 160 MHz

- Rich graphic features:

  - Neo-Chrom GPU (GPU2D) accelerating any angle rotation, scaling, and
    perspective correct texture mapping
  - 16-Kbyte DCACHE2
  - Chrom-ART Accelerator (DMA2D) for smoothmotion and transparency effects
  - Chrom-GRC (GFXMMU) allowing up to 20 % of graphic resources optimization
  - MIPI® DSI host controller with two DSI lanes running at up to 500 Mbit/s each
  - LCD-TFT controller (LTDC)
  - Digital camera interface

- General-purpose input/outputs:

  - Up to 156 fast I/Os with interrupt capability most 5V-tolerant and
    up to 14 I/Os with independent supply down to 1.08 V

- Clock management:

  - 4 to 50 MHz crystal oscillator
  - 32 kHz crystal oscillator for RTC (LSE)
  - Internal 16 MHz factory-trimmed RC (± 1 %)
  - Internal low-power 32 kHz RC (± 5 %)
  - 2 internal multispeed 100 kHz to 48 MHz oscillators, including one
    autotrimmed by LSE (better than ± 0.25 % accuracy)
  - Internal 48 MHz
  - 5 PLLs for system clock, USB, audio, ADC, DSI

- Security and cryptography:

  - SESIP3 and PSA Level 3 Certified Assurance Target
  - Arm® TrustZone® and securable I/Os, memories, and peripherals
  - Flexible life cycle scheme with RDP andpassword-protected debug
  - Root of trust thanks to unique boot entry and secure hide-protection area (HDP)
  - Secure firmware installation (SFI) thanks to embedded root secure services (RSS)
  - Secure data storage with hardware unique key (HUK)
  - Secure firmware upgrade support with TF-M
  - 2 AES coprocessors including one with DPA resistance
  - Public key accelerator, DPA resistant
  - On-the-fly decryption of Octo-SPI external memories
  - HASH hardware accelerator
  - True random number generator, NIST SP800-90B compliant
  - 96-bit unique ID
  - 512-byte OTP (one-time programmable)
  - Active tampers

- Up to 17 timers, 2 watchdogs and RTC:

  - 19 timers: 2 16-bit advanced motor-control, 4 32-bit, 3 16-bit general
    purpose, 2 16-bit basic, 4 low-power 16-bit (available in Stop mode),
    2 SysTick timers, and 2 watchdogs
  - RTC with hardware calendar, alarms, and calibration

- Up to 25 communication peripherals:

  - 1 USB Type-C®/USB power delivery controller
  - 1 USB OTG high-speed with embedded PHY
  - 2 SAIs (serial audio interface)
  - 6 I2C FM+(1 Mbit/s), SMBus/PMBus™
  - 7 USARTs (ISO 7816, LIN, IrDA, modem)
  - 3 SPIs (6x SPIs with OCTOSPI/HSPI)
  - 1 CAN FD controller
  - 2 SDMMC interfaces
  - 1 multifunction digital filter (6 filters) + 1 audio digital filter
    with sound-activity detection
  - Parallel synchronous slave interface

- Mathematical coprocessor:

  - CORDIC for trigonometric functions acceleration
  - FMAC (filter mathematical accelerator)

- Rich analog peripherals (independent supply):

  - 2 14-bit ADC 2.5-Msps with hardware oversampling
  - 1 12-bit ADC 2.5-Msps, with hardware oversampling, autonomous in Stop 2 mode
  - 12-bit DAC (2 channels), low-power sample, and hold, autonomous in Stop 2 mode
  - 2 operational amplifiers with built-in PGA
  - 2 ultra-low-power comparators

- ECOPACK2 compliant packages

More information about STM32U5A5ZJ can be found here:

- `STM32U5A5ZJ on www.st.com`_
- `STM32U5A5 reference manual`_

Supported Features
==================

The Zephyr nucleo_u5a5zj_q board configuration supports the following hardware features:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| CAN/CANFD | on-chip    | canbus                              |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| CLOCK     | on-chip    | reset and clock control             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| DAC       | on-chip    | DAC Controller                      |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| PINMUX    | on-chip    | pinmux                              |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| WATCHDOG  | on-chip    | independent watchdog                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| BKP SRAM  | on-chip    | Backup SRAM                         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| RNG       | on-chip    | True Random number generator        |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| RTC       | on-chip    | rtc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+


Other hardware features are not yet supported on this Zephyr port.

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:
:zephyr_file:`boards/st/nucleo_u5a5zj_q/nucleo_u5a5zj_q_defconfig`


Connections and IOs
===================

Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q Board has 10 GPIO controllers. These controllers are responsible
for pin muxing, input/output, pull-up, etc.

For more details please refer to `STM32 Nucleo-144 board User Manual`_.

Default Zephyr Peripheral Mapping:
----------------------------------


- CAN/CANFD_TX: PD1
- CAN/CANFD_RX: PD0
- DAC1_OUT1 : PA4
- I2C_1_SCL : PB8
- I2C_1_SDA : PB9
- I2C_2_SCL : PF1
- I2C_2_SDA : PF0
- LD1 : PC7
- LD2 : PB7
- LD3 : PG2
- LPUART_1_TX : PG7
- LPUART_1_RX : PG8
- SPI_1_NSS : PA4
- SPI_1_SCK : PA5
- SPI_1_MISO : PA6
- SPI_1_MOSI : PA7
- UART_1_TX : PA9
- UART_1_RX : PA10
- UART_2_TX : PD5
- UART_2_RX : PD6
- USER_PB : PC13

System Clock
------------

Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q System Clock could be driven by internal or external oscillator,
as well as main PLL clock. By default System clock is driven by PLL clock at
160MHz, driven by 4MHz medium speed internal oscillator.

Serial Port
-----------

Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q board has 6 U(S)ARTs. The Zephyr console output is assigned to
USART1. Default settings are 115200 8N1.


Backup SRAM
-----------

In order to test backup SRAM you may want to disconnect VBAT from VDD. You can
do it by removing ``SB50`` jumper on the back side of the board.


Programming and Debugging
*************************

Nucleo U5A5ZJ-Q board includes an ST-LINK/V3 embedded debug tool interface.
This probe allows to flash the board using various tools.

Flashing
========

The board is configured to be flashed using west `STM32CubeProgrammer`_ runner,
so its :ref:`installation <stm32cubeprog-flash-host-tools>` is required.

Alternatively, OpenOCD, JLink, or pyOCD can also be used to flash the board using
the ``--runner`` (or ``-r``) option:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west flash --runner openocd
   $ west flash --runner jlink
   $ west flash --runner pyocd

For pyOCD, additional target information needs to be installed.
This can be done by executing the following commands.

.. code-block:: console

   $ pyocd pack --update
   $ pyocd pack --install stm32u5


Flashing an application to Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q
------------------------------------------

Connect the Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q to your host computer using the USB port.
Then build and flash an application. Here is an example for the
:zephyr:code-sample:`hello_world` application.

Run a serial host program to connect with your Nucleo board:

.. code-block:: console

   $ minicom -D /dev/ttyACM0

Then build and flash the application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: nucleo_u5a5zj_q
   :goals: build flash

You should see the following message on the console:

.. code-block:: console

   Hello World! arm

Debugging
=========

Default flasher for this board is openocd. It could be used in the usual way.
Here is an example for the :zephyr:code-sample:`blinky` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/basic/blinky
   :board: nucleo_u5a5zj_q
   :goals: debug

Note: Check the ``build/tfm`` directory to ensure that the commands required by these scripts
(``readlink``, etc.) are available on your system. Please also check ``STM32_Programmer_CLI``
(which is used for initialization) is available in the PATH.

.. _STM32 Nucleo-144 board User Manual:
   https://www.st.com/resource/en/user_manual/um2861-stm32u5-nucleo144-board-mb1549-stmicroelectronics.pdf

.. _STM32U5A5ZJ on www.st.com:
   https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers/stm32u5a5zj.html

.. _STM32U5A5 reference manual:
   https://www.st.com/resource/en/reference_manual/rm0456-stm32u5-series-armbased-32bit-mcus-stmicroelectronics.pdf

.. _STM32CubeProgrammer:
   https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html

.. _STMicroelectronics customized version of OpenOCD:
   https://github.com/STMicroelectronics/OpenOCD

Commit message:

boards: add USB HS 2.0 support for the Nucleo u5a5jz-q board (Issue #79823)
This board has the required clock crystal (X4) and jumper settings
present to enable the USB 2.0 HS support.

* Enable the HSE clock (16MHz)
* Flip the PLL1 configuration over to use the HSE clock, but still
  outputting 160MHz to sysclk/apbclk.
* Add the USB HS device tree node.
* Update the board documentation.

Signed-off-by: Adrian Chadd <adrian.chadd@meta.com>

boards/st/nucleo_u5a5zj_q/doc/index.rst, after:

.. zephyr:board:: nucleo_u5a5zj_q

Overview
********

The Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q board, featuring an ARM Cortex-M33 based STM32U5A5ZJ MCU,
provides an affordable and flexible way for users to try out new concepts and
build prototypes by choosing from the various combinations of performance and
power consumption features. Here are some highlights of the Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q
board:


- STM32U5A5ZJ microcontroller in LQFP144 package
- Internal SMPS to generate V core logic supply
- Two types of extension resources:

  - Arduino Uno V3 connectivity
  - ST morpho extension pin headers for full access to all STM32 I/Os

- On-board ST-LINK/V3E debugger/programmer
- Flexible board power supply:

  - USB VBUS or external source(3.3V, 5V, 7 - 12V)
  - ST-Link V3E

- Three users LEDs
- Two push-buttons: USER and RESET
- USB Type-C ™ Sink device FS

Hardware
********

The STM32U5A5xx devices are an ultra-low-power microcontrollers family (STM32U5
Series) based on the high-performance Arm® Cortex®-M33 32-bit RISC core.
They operate at a frequency of up to 160 MHz.

- Includes ST state-of-the-art patented technology
- Ultra-low-power with FlexPowerControl:

  - 1.71 V to 3.6 V power supply
  - -40 °C to +85/125 °C temperature range
  - Low-power background autonomous mode (LPBAM): autonomous peripherals with
    DMA, functional down to Stop 2 mode
  - VBAT mode: supply for RTC, 32 x 32-bit backup registers and 2-Kbyte backup SRAM
  - 150 nA Shutdown mode (24 wake-up pins)
  - 195 nA Standby mode (24 wake-up pins)
  - 480 nA Standby mode with RTC
  - 2 µA Stop 3 mode with 40-Kbyte SRAM
  - 8.2 µA Stop 3 mode with 2.5-Mbyte SRAM
  - 4.65 µA Stop 2 mode with 40-Kbyte SRAM
  - 17.5 µA Stop 2 mode with 2.5-Mbyte SRAM
  - 18.5 µA/MHz Run mode at 3.3 V

- Core:

  - Arm® 32-bit Cortex®-M33 CPU with TrustZone®, MPU, DSP,
    and FPU ART Accelerator
  - 32-Kbyte ICACHE allowing 0-wait-state execution from flash and external
    memories: frequency up to 160 MHz, 240 DMIPS
  - 16-Kbyte DCACHE1 for external memories

- Power management:

  - Embedded regulator (LDO) and SMPSstep-down converter supporting switch
    on-the-fly and voltage scaling

- Benchmarks:

  - 1.5 DMIPS/MHz (Drystone 2.1)
  - 655 CoreMark® (4.09 CoreMark®/MHz)
  - 369 ULPMark™-CP
  - 89 ULPMark™-PP
  - 47.2 ULPMark™-CM
  - 120000 SecureMark™-TLS

- Memories:

  - 4-Mbyte flash memory with ECC, 2 banks readwhile-write, including 512 Kbytes
    with 100 kcycles
  - With SRAM3 ECC off: 2514-Kbyte RAM including 66 Kbytes with ECC
  - With SRAM3 ECC on: 2450-Kbyte RAMincluding 322 Kbytes with ECC
  - External memory interface supporting SRAM,PSRAM, NOR, NAND, and FRAM memories
  - 2 Octo-SPI memory interfaces
  - 16-bit HSPI memory interface up to 160 MHz

- Rich graphic features:

  - Neo-Chrom GPU (GPU2D) accelerating any angle rotation, scaling, and
    perspective correct texture mapping
  - 16-Kbyte DCACHE2
  - Chrom-ART Accelerator (DMA2D) for smoothmotion and transparency effects
  - Chrom-GRC (GFXMMU) allowing up to 20 % of graphic resources optimization
  - MIPI® DSI host controller with two DSI lanes running at up to 500 Mbit/s each
  - LCD-TFT controller (LTDC)
  - Digital camera interface

- General-purpose input/outputs:

  - Up to 156 fast I/Os with interrupt capability most 5V-tolerant and
    up to 14 I/Os with independent supply down to 1.08 V

- Clock management:

  - 4 to 50 MHz crystal oscillator
  - 32 kHz crystal oscillator for RTC (LSE)
  - Internal 16 MHz factory-trimmed RC (± 1 %)
  - Internal low-power 32 kHz RC (± 5 %)
  - 2 internal multispeed 100 kHz to 48 MHz oscillators, including one
    autotrimmed by LSE (better than ± 0.25 % accuracy)
  - Internal 48 MHz
  - 5 PLLs for system clock, USB, audio, ADC, DSI

- Security and cryptography:

  - SESIP3 and PSA Level 3 Certified Assurance Target
  - Arm® TrustZone® and securable I/Os, memories, and peripherals
  - Flexible life cycle scheme with RDP andpassword-protected debug
  - Root of trust thanks to unique boot entry and secure hide-protection area (HDP)
  - Secure firmware installation (SFI) thanks to embedded root secure services (RSS)
  - Secure data storage with hardware unique key (HUK)
  - Secure firmware upgrade support with TF-M
  - 2 AES coprocessors including one with DPA resistance
  - Public key accelerator, DPA resistant
  - On-the-fly decryption of Octo-SPI external memories
  - HASH hardware accelerator
  - True random number generator, NIST SP800-90B compliant
  - 96-bit unique ID
  - 512-byte OTP (one-time programmable)
  - Active tampers

- Up to 17 timers, 2 watchdogs and RTC:

  - 19 timers: 2 16-bit advanced motor-control, 4 32-bit, 3 16-bit general
    purpose, 2 16-bit basic, 4 low-power 16-bit (available in Stop mode),
    2 SysTick timers, and 2 watchdogs
  - RTC with hardware calendar, alarms, and calibration

- Up to 25 communication peripherals:

  - 1 USB Type-C®/USB power delivery controller
  - 1 USB OTG high-speed with embedded PHY
  - 2 SAIs (serial audio interface)
  - 6 I2C FM+(1 Mbit/s), SMBus/PMBus™
  - 7 USARTs (ISO 7816, LIN, IrDA, modem)
  - 3 SPIs (6x SPIs with OCTOSPI/HSPI)
  - 1 CAN FD controller
  - 2 SDMMC interfaces
  - 1 multifunction digital filter (6 filters) + 1 audio digital filter
    with sound-activity detection
  - Parallel synchronous slave interface

- Mathematical coprocessor:

  - CORDIC for trigonometric functions acceleration
  - FMAC (filter mathematical accelerator)

- Rich analog peripherals (independent supply):

  - 2 14-bit ADC 2.5-Msps with hardware oversampling
  - 1 12-bit ADC 2.5-Msps, with hardware oversampling, autonomous in Stop 2 mode
  - 12-bit DAC (2 channels), low-power sample, and hold, autonomous in Stop 2 mode
  - 2 operational amplifiers with built-in PGA
  - 2 ultra-low-power comparators

- ECOPACK2 compliant packages

More information about STM32U5A5ZJ can be found here:

- `STM32U5A5ZJ on www.st.com`_
- `STM32U5A5 reference manual`_

Supported Features
==================

The Zephyr nucleo_u5a5zj_q board configuration supports the following hardware features:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| CAN/CANFD | on-chip    | canbus                              |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| CLOCK     | on-chip    | reset and clock control             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| DAC       | on-chip    | DAC Controller                      |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| PINMUX    | on-chip    | pinmux                              |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| WATCHDOG  | on-chip    | independent watchdog                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| BKP SRAM  | on-chip    | Backup SRAM                         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| RNG       | on-chip    | True Random number generator        |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| RTC       | on-chip    | rtc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB       | on-chip    | USB 2.0 HS                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+


Other hardware features are not yet supported on this Zephyr port.

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:
:zephyr_file:`boards/st/nucleo_u5a5zj_q/nucleo_u5a5zj_q_defconfig`


Connections and IOs
===================

Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q Board has 10 GPIO controllers. These controllers are responsible
for pin muxing, input/output, pull-up, etc.

For more details please refer to `STM32 Nucleo-144 board User Manual`_.

Default Zephyr Peripheral Mapping:
----------------------------------


- CAN/CANFD_TX: PD1
- CAN/CANFD_RX: PD0
- DAC1_OUT1 : PA4
- I2C_1_SCL : PB8
- I2C_1_SDA : PB9
- I2C_2_SCL : PF1
- I2C_2_SDA : PF0
- LD1 : PC7
- LD2 : PB7
- LD3 : PG2
- LPUART_1_TX : PG7
- LPUART_1_RX : PG8
- SPI_1_NSS : PA4
- SPI_1_SCK : PA5
- SPI_1_MISO : PA6
- SPI_1_MOSI : PA7
- UART_1_TX : PA9
- UART_1_RX : PA10
- UART_2_TX : PD5
- UART_2_RX : PD6
- USER_PB : PC13
- USB_DM : PA11
- USB_DP : PA12

System Clock
------------

Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q System Clock could be driven by internal or external oscillator,
as well as main PLL clock. By default System clock is driven by PLL clock at
160MHz, driven by the 16MHz high speed oscillator.

Serial Port
-----------

Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q board has 6 U(S)ARTs. The Zephyr console output is assigned to
USART1. Default settings are 115200 8N1.

Backup SRAM
-----------

In order to test backup SRAM you may want to disconnect VBAT from VDD. You can
do it by removing ``SB50`` jumper on the back side of the board.

Using USB
---------

USB 2.0 high speed (HS) operation requires the HSE clock source to be populated
and enabled.  The Nucleo U5A5ZJ-Q includes the 16MHz oscillator and required
jumper settings.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Nucleo U5A5ZJ-Q board includes an ST-LINK/V3 embedded debug tool interface.
This probe allows to flash the board using various tools.

Flashing
========

The board is configured to be flashed using west `STM32CubeProgrammer`_ runner,
so its :ref:`installation <stm32cubeprog-flash-host-tools>` is required.

Alternatively, OpenOCD, JLink, or pyOCD can also be used to flash the board using
the ``--runner`` (or ``-r``) option:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west flash --runner openocd
   $ west flash --runner jlink
   $ west flash --runner pyocd

For pyOCD, additional target information needs to be installed.
This can be done by executing the following commands.

.. code-block:: console

   $ pyocd pack --update
   $ pyocd pack --install stm32u5


Flashing an application to Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q
------------------------------------------

Connect the Nucleo U5A5ZJ Q to your host computer using the USB port.
Then build and flash an application. Here is an example for the
:zephyr:code-sample:`hello_world` application.

Run a serial host program to connect with your Nucleo board:

.. code-block:: console

   $ minicom -D /dev/ttyACM0

Then build and flash the application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: nucleo_u5a5zj_q
   :goals: build flash

You should see the following message on the console:

.. code-block:: console

   Hello World! arm

Debugging
=========

Default flasher for this board is openocd. It could be used in the usual way.
Here is an example for the :zephyr:code-sample:`blinky` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/basic/blinky
   :board: nucleo_u5a5zj_q
   :goals: debug

Note: Check the ``build/tfm`` directory to ensure that the commands required by these scripts
(``readlink``, etc.) are available on your system. Please also check ``STM32_Programmer_CLI``
(which is used for initialization) is available in the PATH.

.. _STM32 Nucleo-144 board User Manual:
   https://www.st.com/resource/en/user_manual/um2861-stm32u5-nucleo144-board-mb1549-stmicroelectronics.pdf

.. _STM32U5A5ZJ on www.st.com:
   https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers/stm32u5a5zj.html

.. _STM32U5A5 reference manual:
   https://www.st.com/resource/en/reference_manual/rm0456-stm32u5-series-armbased-32bit-mcus-stmicroelectronics.pdf

.. _STM32CubeProgrammer:
   https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html

.. _STMicroelectronics customized version of OpenOCD:
   https://github.com/STMicroelectronics/OpenOCD
