boards/renesas/ek_ra8d1/doc/index.rst, before:

.. _ek_ra8d1:

RA8D1 Evaluation Kit
####################

Overview
********

The EK-RA8D1 is an Evaluation Kit for Renesas RA8D1 MCU Group which are the industry’s first 32-bit
graphics-enabled MCUs based on the Arm Cortex-M85 (CM85) core, delivering breakthrough performance
of over 3000 Coremark points at 480 MHz and superior graphics capabilities that enable high-resolution
displays and Vision AI applications.

The key features of the EK-RA8D1 board are categorized in three groups as follow:

**MCU Native Pin Access**

- 480MHz Arm Cortex-M85 based RA8D1 MCU in 224 pins, BGA package
- Native pin acces througgh 2 x 50-pin, and 2 x 40-pin male headers
- MCU current measurement points for precision current consumption measurement
- Multiple clock sources - RA8D1 MCU oscillator and sub-clock oscillator crystals,
  providing precision 20.000MHz and 32,768 Hz refeence clocks.
  Additional low precision clocks are avaialbe internal to the RA8D1 MCU

**System Control and Ecosystem Access**

- USB Full Speed Host and Device (micro-AB connector)
- Four 5V input sources

  - USB (Debug, Full Speed, High Speed)
  - External power supply (using surface mount clamp test points and power input vias)

- Three Debug modes

  - Debug on-board (SWD)
  - Debug in (ETM, SWD and JTAG)
  - Debug out (SWD)

- User LEDs and buttons

  - Three User LEDs (red, blue, green)
  - Power LED (white) indicating availability of regulated power
  - Debug LED (yellow) indicating the debug connection
  - Two User buttons
  - One Reset button

- Five most popular ecosystems expansions

  - Two Seeed Grove system (I2C/I3C) connectors
  - One SparkFun Qwiic connector
  - Two Digilent Pmod (SPI, UART and I2C/I3C) connectors
  - Arduino (Uno R3) connector
  - MikroElektronika mikroBUS connector

- MCU boot configuration jumper

**Special Feature Access**

- Ethernet (RJ45 RMII interface)
- USB High Speed Host and Device (micro-AB connector)
- 512 Mb (64 MB) External Octo-SPI Flash (present in the MCU Native Pin Access area of the EK-RA8D1 board)
- CAN FD (3-pin header)

.. figure:: ek-ra8d1-board.jpg
	:align: center
	:alt: RA8D1 Evaluation Kit

	EK-RA8D1 Board Functional Area Definitions (Credit: Renesas Electronics Corporation)

Hardware
********
Detail Hardware feature for the RA8D1 MCU group can be found at `RA8D1 Group User's Manual Hardware`_

.. figure:: ra8d1-block-diagram.png
	:width: 442px
	:align: center
	:alt: RA8D1 MCU group feature

	RA8D1 Block diagram (Credit: Renesas Electronics Corporation)

Detail Hardware feature for the EK-RA8D1 MCU can be found at `EK-RA8D1 - User's Manual`_

Supported Features
==================

The below features are currently supported on Zephyr OS for EK-RA8D1 board:

+--------------+------------+------------------+
| Interface    | Controller | Driver/Component |
+==============+============+==================+
| GPIO         | on-chip    | gpio             |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| MPU          | on-chip    | arch/arm         |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| NVIC         | on-chip    | arch/arm         |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| UART         | on-chip    | serial           |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| CLOCK        | on-chip    | clock control    |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| ENTROPY      | on-chip    | entropy          |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| SPI          | on-chip    | spi              |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| FLASH        | on-chip    | flash            |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| PWM          | on-chip    | pwm              |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| COUNTER      | on-chip    | counter          |
+--------------+------------+------------------+

Other hardware features are currently not supported by the port.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Applications for the ``ek_ra8d1`` board configuration can be
built, flashed, and debugged in the usual way. See
:ref:`build_an_application` and :ref:`application_run` for more details on
building and running.

**Note:** Only support from SDK v0.16.6 in which GCC for Cortex Arm-M85 was available.
To build for EK-RA8M1 user need to get and install GNU Arm Embedded toolchain from https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/sdk-ng/releases/tag/v0.16.6

Flashing
========

Program can be flashed to EK-RA8D1 via the on-board SEGGER J-Link debugger.
SEGGER J-link's drivers are avaialbe at https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/

To flash the program to board

  1. Connect to J-Link OB via USB port to host PC

  2. Make sure J-Link OB jumper is in default configuration as describe in `EK-RA8D1 - User's Manual`_

  3. Execute west command

	.. code-block:: console

		west flash -r jlink

Debugging
=========

You can use Segger Ozone (`Segger Ozone Download`_) for a visual debug interface

Once downloaded and installed, open Segger Ozone and configure the debug project
like so:

* Target Device: R7FA8D1BH
* Target Interface: SWD
* Target Interface Speed: 4 MHz
* Host Interface: USB
* Program File: <path/to/your/build/zephyr.elf>

**Note:** It's verified that debug is OK on Segger Ozone v3.30d so please use this or later
version of Segger Ozone

References
**********
- `EK-RA8D1 Website`_
- `RA8D1 MCU group Website`_

.. _EK-RA8D1 Website:
   https://www.renesas.com/us/en/products/microcontrollers-microprocessors/ra-cortex-m-mcus/ek-ra8d1-evaluation-kit-ra8d1-mcu-group

.. _RA8D1 MCU group Website:
   https://www.renesas.com/us/en/products/microcontrollers-microprocessors/ra-cortex-m-mcus/ra8d1-480-mhz-arm-cortex-m85-based-graphics-microcontroller-helium-and-trustzone

.. _EK-RA8D1 - User's Manual:
   https://www.renesas.com/us/en/document/mat/ek-ra8d1-v1-user-manual

.. _RA8D1 Group User's Manual Hardware:
   https://www.renesas.com/us/en/document/mah/ra8d1-group-users-manual-hardware

.. _Segger Ozone Download:
   https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink#Ozone

Commit message:

boards: renesas: ra: Add Ethernet support for RA8 boards
Enable Ethernet controller node and mdio node for RA boards.
Add pinctl for mdio and Ethernet usage

Signed-off-by: Duy Nguyen <duy.nguyen.xa@renesas.com>

boards/renesas/ek_ra8d1/doc/index.rst, after:

.. _ek_ra8d1:

RA8D1 Evaluation Kit
####################

Overview
********

The EK-RA8D1 is an Evaluation Kit for Renesas RA8D1 MCU Group which are the industry’s first 32-bit
graphics-enabled MCUs based on the Arm Cortex-M85 (CM85) core, delivering breakthrough performance
of over 3000 Coremark points at 480 MHz and superior graphics capabilities that enable high-resolution
displays and Vision AI applications.

The key features of the EK-RA8D1 board are categorized in three groups as follow:

**MCU Native Pin Access**

- 480MHz Arm Cortex-M85 based RA8D1 MCU in 224 pins, BGA package
- Native pin acces througgh 2 x 50-pin, and 2 x 40-pin male headers
- MCU current measurement points for precision current consumption measurement
- Multiple clock sources - RA8D1 MCU oscillator and sub-clock oscillator crystals,
  providing precision 20.000MHz and 32,768 Hz refeence clocks.
  Additional low precision clocks are avaialbe internal to the RA8D1 MCU

**System Control and Ecosystem Access**

- USB Full Speed Host and Device (micro-AB connector)
- Four 5V input sources

  - USB (Debug, Full Speed, High Speed)
  - External power supply (using surface mount clamp test points and power input vias)

- Three Debug modes

  - Debug on-board (SWD)
  - Debug in (ETM, SWD and JTAG)
  - Debug out (SWD)

- User LEDs and buttons

  - Three User LEDs (red, blue, green)
  - Power LED (white) indicating availability of regulated power
  - Debug LED (yellow) indicating the debug connection
  - Two User buttons
  - One Reset button

- Five most popular ecosystems expansions

  - Two Seeed Grove system (I2C/I3C) connectors
  - One SparkFun Qwiic connector
  - Two Digilent Pmod (SPI, UART and I2C/I3C) connectors
  - Arduino (Uno R3) connector
  - MikroElektronika mikroBUS connector

- MCU boot configuration jumper

**Special Feature Access**

- Ethernet (RJ45 RMII interface)
- USB High Speed Host and Device (micro-AB connector)
- 512 Mb (64 MB) External Octo-SPI Flash (present in the MCU Native Pin Access area of the EK-RA8D1 board)
- CAN FD (3-pin header)

.. figure:: ek-ra8d1-board.jpg
	:align: center
	:alt: RA8D1 Evaluation Kit

	EK-RA8D1 Board Functional Area Definitions (Credit: Renesas Electronics Corporation)

Hardware
********
Detail Hardware feature for the RA8D1 MCU group can be found at `RA8D1 Group User's Manual Hardware`_

.. figure:: ra8d1-block-diagram.png
	:width: 442px
	:align: center
	:alt: RA8D1 MCU group feature

	RA8D1 Block diagram (Credit: Renesas Electronics Corporation)

Detail Hardware feature for the EK-RA8D1 MCU can be found at `EK-RA8D1 - User's Manual`_

Supported Features
==================

The below features are currently supported on Zephyr OS for EK-RA8D1 board:

+--------------+------------+------------------+
| Interface    | Controller | Driver/Component |
+==============+============+==================+
| GPIO         | on-chip    | gpio             |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| MPU          | on-chip    | arch/arm         |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| NVIC         | on-chip    | arch/arm         |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| UART         | on-chip    | serial           |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| CLOCK        | on-chip    | clock control    |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| ENTROPY      | on-chip    | entropy          |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| SPI          | on-chip    | spi              |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| FLASH        | on-chip    | flash            |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| PWM          | on-chip    | pwm              |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| COUNTER      | on-chip    | counter          |
+--------------+------------+------------------+
| ETHERNET     | on-chip    | ethernet         |
+--------------+------------+------------------+

**Note:** for using Ethernet on RA8D1 board please set switch SW1 as following configuration:

+-------------+-------------+--------------+------------+------------+------------+-------------+-----------+
| SW1-1 PMOD1 | SW1-2 TRACE | SW1-3 CAMERA | SW1-4 ETHA | SW1-5 ETHB | SW1-6 GLCD | SW1-7 SDRAM | SW1-8 I3C |
+-------------+-------------+--------------+------------+------------+------------+-------------+-----------+
|     OFF     |      OFF    |      OFF     |     OFF    |     ON     |      OFF   |      OFF    |     OFF   |
+-------------+-------------+--------------+------------+------------+------------+-------------+-----------+

**CAUTION:** Do not enable SW1-4 and SW1-5 together

Other hardware features are currently not supported by the port.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Applications for the ``ek_ra8d1`` board configuration can be
built, flashed, and debugged in the usual way. See
:ref:`build_an_application` and :ref:`application_run` for more details on
building and running.

**Note:** Only support from SDK v0.16.6 in which GCC for Cortex Arm-M85 was available.
To build for EK-RA8M1 user need to get and install GNU Arm Embedded toolchain from https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/sdk-ng/releases/tag/v0.16.6

Flashing
========

Program can be flashed to EK-RA8D1 via the on-board SEGGER J-Link debugger.
SEGGER J-link's drivers are avaialbe at https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/

To flash the program to board

  1. Connect to J-Link OB via USB port to host PC

  2. Make sure J-Link OB jumper is in default configuration as describe in `EK-RA8D1 - User's Manual`_

  3. Execute west command

	.. code-block:: console

		west flash -r jlink

Debugging
=========

You can use Segger Ozone (`Segger Ozone Download`_) for a visual debug interface

Once downloaded and installed, open Segger Ozone and configure the debug project
like so:

* Target Device: R7FA8D1BH
* Target Interface: SWD
* Target Interface Speed: 4 MHz
* Host Interface: USB
* Program File: <path/to/your/build/zephyr.elf>

**Note:** It's verified that debug is OK on Segger Ozone v3.30d so please use this or later
version of Segger Ozone

References
**********
- `EK-RA8D1 Website`_
- `RA8D1 MCU group Website`_

.. _EK-RA8D1 Website:
   https://www.renesas.com/us/en/products/microcontrollers-microprocessors/ra-cortex-m-mcus/ek-ra8d1-evaluation-kit-ra8d1-mcu-group

.. _RA8D1 MCU group Website:
   https://www.renesas.com/us/en/products/microcontrollers-microprocessors/ra-cortex-m-mcus/ra8d1-480-mhz-arm-cortex-m85-based-graphics-microcontroller-helium-and-trustzone

.. _EK-RA8D1 - User's Manual:
   https://www.renesas.com/us/en/document/mat/ek-ra8d1-v1-user-manual

.. _RA8D1 Group User's Manual Hardware:
   https://www.renesas.com/us/en/document/mah/ra8d1-group-users-manual-hardware

.. _Segger Ozone Download:
   https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink#Ozone
