boards/raspberrypi/rpi_pico2/doc/index.rst, before:

.. zephyr:board:: rpi_pico2

Overview
********

The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 is the second-generation product in the Raspberry Pi
Pico family. From the `Raspberry Pi website <https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/pico-series.html>`_ is referred to as Pico 2.

Hardware
********

- Dual Cortex-M33 or Hazard3 processors at up to 150MHz
- 520KB of SRAM, and 4MB of on-board flash memory
- USB 1.1 with device and host support
- Low-power sleep and dormant modes
- Drag-and-drop programming using mass storage over USB
- 26 multi-function GPIO pins including 3 that can be used for ADC
- 2 SPI, 2 I2C, 2 UART, 3 12-bit 500ksps Analogue to Digital - Converter (ADC), 24 controllable PWM channels
- 2 Timer with 4 alarms, 1 AON Timer
- Temperature sensor
- 3 Programmable IO (PIO) blocks, 12 state machines total for custom peripheral support

  - Flexible, user-programmable high-speed IO
  - Can emulate interfaces such as SD Card and VGA

Supported Features
==================

The ``rpi_pico2`` board target supports the following
hardware features:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Peripheral
     - Kconfig option
     - Devicetree compatible
   * - NVIC
     - N/A
     - :dtcompatible:`arm,v8m-nvic`
   * - ADC
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ADC`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-adc`
   * - Clock controller
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-clock-controller`
   * - Counter
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COUNTER`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-timer`
   * - DMA
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DMA`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-dma`
   * - GPIO
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_GPIO`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-gpio`
   * - HWINFO
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_HWINFO`
     - N/A
   * - I2C
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_I2C`
     - :dtcompatible:`snps,designware-i2c`
   * - PWM
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PWM`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-pwm`
   * - SPI
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SPI`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-spi`
   * - UART
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SERIAL`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-uart`
   * - UART (PIO)
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SERIAL`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-uart-pio`

Connections and IOs
===================

The default pin mapping is unchanged from the Pico 1 (see :ref:`rpi_pico_pin_mapping`).

Programming and Debugging
*************************

As with the Pico 1, the SWD interface can be used to program and debug the
device, e.g. using OpenOCD with the `Raspberry Pi Debug Probe <https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/debug-probe.html>`_ .

References
**********

.. target-notes::

Commit message:

rp2350: Define and implement a cpucluster of Cortex-M33s
Assume that users want to run a dual Cortex-M33 on the Pico 2, and
update various parts of the codebase to match. I expect the majority of
the soc's definition will move from `dts/arm/raspberrypi` to
`dts/common/raspberrypi` if/when support is added for the Hazard3 cores.

Some parts of the codebase can cope without encoding the cluster in the
filename (e.g. Twister seems to use the identifier in
`boards/raspberrypi/rpi_pico2/rpi_pico2.yaml` rather than the filename
itself), others can't (e.g. `rpi_pico2_m33_defconfig`) which itself is
a form of <board>_<cpucluster>_defconfig and doesn't refer to the SoC.
Despite this, some files have been given the verbose fully-specified
name because this matches the current documentation.

Update documentation to try to highlight the capabilities and
limitations of the current support within Zephyr for the Pico 2 board
and the underlying SoC.

Update `.overlay` and `.conf` files in `samples/` and `tests/` to match
the new requirement.

Limited tested locally with no issues found.

Signed-off-by: Andrew Featherstone <andrew.featherstone@gmail.com>

boards/raspberrypi/rpi_pico2/doc/index.rst, after:

.. zephyr:board:: rpi_pico2

Overview
********

The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 is the second-generation product in the Raspberry Pi
Pico family. From the `Raspberry Pi website <https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/pico-series.html>`_ is referred to as Pico 2.

There are many limitations of the board currently. Including but not limited to:
- The Zephyr build only supports configuring the RP2350A with the Cortex-M33 cores.
- As with the Pico 1, there's no support for running any code on the second core.

Hardware
********

- Dual Cortex-M33 or Hazard3 processors at up to 150MHz
- 520KB of SRAM, and 4MB of on-board flash memory
- USB 1.1 with device and host support
- Low-power sleep and dormant modes
- Drag-and-drop programming using mass storage over USB
- 26 multi-function GPIO pins including 3 that can be used for ADC
- 2 SPI, 2 I2C, 2 UART, 3 12-bit 500ksps Analogue to Digital - Converter (ADC), 24 controllable PWM channels
- 2 Timer with 4 alarms, 1 AON Timer
- Temperature sensor
- 3 Programmable IO (PIO) blocks, 12 state machines total for custom peripheral support

  - Flexible, user-programmable high-speed IO
  - Can emulate interfaces such as SD Card and VGA

Supported Features
==================

The ``rpi_pico2/rp2350a/m33`` board target supports the following
hardware features:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Peripheral
     - Kconfig option
     - Devicetree compatible
   * - NVIC
     - N/A
     - :dtcompatible:`arm,v8m-nvic`
   * - ADC
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ADC`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-adc`
   * - Clock controller
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-clock-controller`
   * - Counter
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COUNTER`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-timer`
   * - DMA
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DMA`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-dma`
   * - GPIO
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_GPIO`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-gpio`
   * - HWINFO
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_HWINFO`
     - N/A
   * - I2C
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_I2C`
     - :dtcompatible:`snps,designware-i2c`
   * - PWM
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PWM`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-pwm`
   * - SPI
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SPI`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-spi`
   * - UART
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SERIAL`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-uart`
   * - UART (PIO)
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SERIAL`
     - :dtcompatible:`raspberrypi,pico-uart-pio`

Connections and IOs
===================

The default pin mapping is unchanged from the Pico 1 (see :ref:`rpi_pico_pin_mapping`).

Programming and Debugging
*************************

As with the Pico 1, the SWD interface can be used to program and debug the
device, e.g. using OpenOCD with the `Raspberry Pi Debug Probe <https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/debug-probe.html>`_ .

References
**********

.. target-notes::
